This is a model for understanding
and working with group scale.
Fundamentally, group dynamics exist at
different group sizes.
Things that work reliably at one scale
create chaos at another.
These dynamics have been analyzed
and mapped now for decades.
This diagram outlines a group scale model that you can use
to inform the design of human systems like DAOs.
This model is not a fixed model.
We are constantly testing it against organizational designs
in the real world so
that we can iterate it based on actual experimental results.
This diagram splits effective group size across three
fundamentally different scales, which are defined
as firstly, collaboration scale,
then coordination scale, and finally broadcast scale.
Starting on the left is collaboration scale.
Collaboration here is defined
as sharing novel ideas in a productive way
to produce something new.
Getting to group coherence is the critical thing.
A group size of one is obviously the easiest size
to reach coherence at.
This is because with only one brain,
there's no communication overhead.
As we increase the group size from two to three
and beyond, we get more diversity of perspectives and ideas
and a greater possibility of useful new innovation emerging.
But in order to stay in group coherence,
we also get exponentially increasing communication overhead.
It requires more and more effort to create group coherence,
and it gets easier and easier for the group
to fall into chaotic patterns.
At around 10 people, group collaboration becomes impossible,
and chaos or some other group
anti-patent becomes inevitable.
Above 10 people, we transition to coordination. Scale.
Coordination here is defined
as successfully working together on well understood
activities to produce predictable outcomes.
Coordination scale can start at two people,
but it becomes necessary above 10 people.
As collaboration becomes impossible at coordination scale,
people can understand what needs to be done
and can utilize processes
and relationships to effectively do things together.
Group coherence is achieved by constraining the group
to well understood processes.
At about 150 humans, we lose the ability
to coordinate based on limits to our capacity to relate
to larger group sizes.
This is known as the Dunbar number
where coordination becomes difficult
as the group becomes too large for individuals
to navigate effectively. So at this point,
We transition to broadcast scale.
Broadcast scale is 150 people plus
and is about large groups of people
participating in highly constrained ways.
Interaction is maximally constrained to consumption
of media, voting on limited sets of options,
and using scalable interfaces such
as interacting with products.
The set of possible outcomes at broadcast scale
is extremely limited.
The overarching pattern that you'll be able to see here is
that on the left, the number
of potential outcomes is greatest
because the system is least constrained.
And as we move to the right, the system needs
to become more constrained, limiting the number
of potential outcomes to present
to prevent the system falling into chaos.
So the larger the group scale,
the greater the constraints needed
and the smaller the number of possible outcomes.
And conversely, the smaller the group scale,
the fewer the constraints needed
and the greater the field of possible outcomes.